While maintaining software application, we must focus on the quality of its source code to simplify maintenance and updates. The syntax rules of python allow us to express concepts without writing additional code. At the same time, Python, unlike other programming languages, emphasizes on code readability, and allows us to use English keywords instead of punctutations. Hence, we can use python to build applications without writing additional code. The readable and clean code base will help us to maintain and update the software without putting extra time and effort.

Python supports several programming paradigm. It supports object oriented and structured programming fully. Also, its language features support various concepts in functional and aspect oriented programming.At the same time, Pythin also features a dynamic type system and automatic memory management. The programming paradigms and language feature help you to use python for developing large and complex software applications.


Python supports many operating systems. We can even use python interprets programming language. It allows us to run the same code on multiple platforms without recompiltaion. Hence, we needn't recompile the code after making any alteration. We can run the modified application code without recompling and check the impact of changes made to the code immediately. The feature makes it easier for us to make changes to the code without increasing development time.

Its large and robust standard library makes python score over other programming languages. The standard library allows us to choose from a wide range of modules according to our precise needs. Each module further enables us to add functionality to the Python application without writing additional code. For instance, while writing a web application in python, we can use specific modules to implement web services, perform string operations, manage operating system interface or work with internet protocols. We can even gather information about various modules by browsing through the Python standard library.

As an open source programming, python helps us to cuutail software development cost significantly. We can use several open source python frameworks, libraries and development tools to curtail development time without increasing development cost. We even have option to choose from a wide range of open source python frameworks and development tools according to our precise needs. For instance, we can simplify and speedup web application development by using robust Python web frameworks like Django, Flask, Pyramid, Bottle and Cherrpy. Likewise, we can accelarate desktop GUI application using frameworks and toolkits like PyQT, PyJs, PYGUI, Kivy, PyGTK abd WxPython.

Python is a general purpose programming language. Hence, we can use the programming language for developing complex scientific and numeric applications. Python is designed with features to facilitate data analysis and visualization. We can take ad
