To build an application we need to follow few steps:

1. Collecting and scraping customer reviews data using selenium and scrapy.
2. Training a deep learning sentiment classifier on this data using Pytorch.
3. Building an interactive web app using Dash.
4. Setting a REST API and a postgres database.
5. Dockerizing the app using Docker Compose.
6. Deploying to GCP/AWS.


Python has a unique way of performing compile-time and run-time code checking. A small portion checking out during compile-time checking, but most of the checks such as type, name, etc are postponed untile code execution. If the Python code references a user-defined function that does not exist, the code will compile successfully and the code will fail with an exception only when the code execution path references the function which doesn't exist.



Python files are first compiled to bytecode and are then executed by the host. "OR" Type python.pv at the command line.

Python is an object oriented language so all variables hold references to the objects. The references values are according to the functions and as result, the value of references cannot be changed. However, the objects can be changed if it is mutable.

The module is the way to structure a program. Each python program file is a module, which import other modules like objects and attributes.
The folder of python program is a package of modules. A package can have modules or subfolders.

.py files are python source files. .pyc files are the compiled bytecode files that is generated by the python compiler.

Python makes use of try, except and finally blocks for error handling. Try block is used to execute the code until an error occurs. We can make use of an expect block to receive control which will receive control after all errors, or one can use specific exception handling blocks for various error types. Control is transferred to the appropriate except block. In all cases, the final block is executed. Raise may be used to raise your own exceptions.

Instance variables are variables that are created locally within a class to refer to an object of the class. A class variable is one that is created globally in a class and is accessible within all instance of that class.

Class variables can be accessed anywhere within that class whereas an instance variable can only be accessed within the particular object of the class.

As class variables are common to all objects of a class, changes made to these variables through one object will reflect in another. As each object will have its own copy of instance variables, changes made to these variables through one object will not reflect in another object.

Class variables can be accessed using either class name or object reference Instance variables can be accessed only through an object reference.



